examples/README.md, before:

# README



## 1. Default Examples 



### 1.1 Benchmark

**PROJECT:    benchmark**

It is an **ALL-IN-ONE** example that demonstrates almost all the features provided by the library. It is also used as a benchmark of Arm-2D. Since there is no public benchmark available for micro-controllers, we decide to overcome this problem with the following methods and considerations:

- **Choose the widely used algorithms in embedded GUI as the body of the benchmark**
  - Alpha-blending
  - Colour-Keying
  - Blit
  - Tiling
  - Rotation
  - Mirroring
  - Masking
- **Simulate a typical application scenario with sufficient complexity**
  - Background with Texture Tiling (switching mirroring modes every 4 second)
  - Foreground picture 
  - Two constructed layers for alpha-blending and tiling with colour keying
  - Moving icons
  - Spinning busy wheel
- **Choose a typical low-cost LCD resolution 320*240 in RGB565**
- **Let those layers float with different angles and speed to cover a sufficient number of conditions.**
- **Record the cycle count used for blending one frame and run 1000 iterations (frames).** 



**Figure 1-1 A snapshot of benchmark running on Cortex-M4 FVP platform**

![](../documentation/pictures/benchmark.png) 



- **Use the average cycle count in 1000 iterations as benchmark score.**

  - Based on that, for typical embedded application requirement, we derive a more meaningful metrics called the **Minimal Frequency Required for 30 FPS (MHz)** as shown in **Figure 1-5**. 

  

**Figure 1-2 Performance Comparison among some Cortex-M processors**

![image-20210318225839820](../documentation/pictures/TopReadme_1_6_2_b.png)



### 1.2 Watch-Panel

**PROJECT:    watch_panel**

It is an example of transform APIs. It consists of seven layers:

1. Background: Filling Black colour
2. Magnifying Glass Perspective (Copy with a mask on target side)
3. A clock_panel layer (Copy with colour keying and opacity)
4. A small gold gear (Rotation with colour keying)
5. A big gray gear (Rotation with colour keying and opacity)
6. A red pointer (Rotation with a source mask and a specified pivot)
7. A Fading star (Rotation and scaling with a source mask and opacity)

This demo also shows how a fancy looking clock could be rendered with just less than 10K RAM (or even less by using a smaller PFB size). 

**Figure 1-3  A snapshot of watch-panel running on Cortex-M4 FVP platform**

![watch-panel](../documentation/pictures/watch-panel.png)

Commit message:

rename [template][xxxx][pfb] as [template][xxxx]

examples/README.md, after:

# README



## 1. Benchmark 

You can now run benchmarks directly in `[template][bare-metal]` and `[template][cmsis-rtso2]` projects by selecting the desired benchmark in RTE.

### 1.1 Benchmark: Generic

It is an **ALL-IN-ONE** example that demonstrates almost all the features provided by the library. It is also used as a benchmark of Arm-2D. Since there is no public benchmark available for micro-controllers, we decide to overcome this problem with the following methods and considerations:

- **Choose the widely used algorithms in embedded GUI as the body of the benchmark**
  - Alpha-blending
  - Colour-Keying
  - Blit
  - Tiling
  - Rotation
  - Mirroring
  - Masking
- **Simulate a typical application scenario with sufficient complexity**
  - Background with Texture Tiling (switching mirroring modes every 4 second)
  - Foreground picture 
  - Two constructed layers for alpha-blending and tiling with colour keying
  - Moving icons
  - Spinning busy wheel
- **Choose a typical low-cost LCD resolution 320*240 in RGB565**
- **Let those layers float with different angles and speed to cover a sufficient number of conditions.**
- **Record the cycle count used for blending one frame and run 1000 iterations (frames).** 



**Figure 1-1 A snapshot of benchmark running on Cortex-M4 FVP platform**

![](../documentation/pictures/benchmark.png) 



- **Use the average cycle count in 1000 iterations as benchmark score.**

  - Based on that, for typical embedded application requirement, we derive a more meaningful metrics called the **Minimal Frequency Required for 30 FPS (MHz)** as shown in **Figure 1-5**. 

  

**Figure 1-2 Performance Comparison among some Cortex-M processors**

![image-20210318225839820](../documentation/pictures/TopReadme_1_6_2_b.png)



### 1.2 Benchmark: Watch-Panel

It is an example of transform APIs. It consists of seven layers:

1. Background: Filling Black colour
2. Magnifying Glass Perspective (Copy with a mask on target side)
3. A clock_panel layer (Copy with colour keying and opacity)
4. A small gold gear (Rotation with colour keying)
5. A big gray gear (Rotation with colour keying and opacity)
6. A red pointer (Rotation with a source mask and a specified pivot)
7. A Fading star (Rotation and scaling with a source mask and opacity)

This demo also shows how a fancy looking clock could be rendered with just less than 10K RAM (or even less by using a smaller PFB size). 

**Figure 1-3  A snapshot of watch-panel running on Cortex-M4 FVP platform**

![watch-panel](../documentation/pictures/watch-panel.png)
